add documentation for adding a new platform (#1170)
coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/add-new-platform.md

# Adding a new supported platform(N)

## At Development

> - [ ] Create a WIP draft pull request on CoreOS-Assembler with new platform support [here](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler)

Reviewer: I think we can drop the redundant "WIP draft pull request" language?

"coreos-assembler", no cap.

Let's add high-level summaries of what each change needs to accomplish, and maybe a link to an example PR?

Author: I think I addressed this, let me know!

- [ ] Create a WIP draft pull request on the [fedora-web](https://pagure.io/fedora-web/websites) project
    - [ ] `Add platform to the sites/static/js/coreos-download.js`

> - [ ] Create a WIP draft pull request on the [stream-metadata-go](https://github.com/coreos/stream-metadata-go)

Reviewer: Platforms with cloud images also need an `Images` field, and a corresponding PR to stream-metadata-rust.

The metadata docs in fedora-coreos-tracker also need updating.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] [stream-metadata-go](https://github.com/coreos/stream-metadata-go)
    - [Example PR](https://github.com/coreos/stream-metadata-go/pull/45/)
    - [ ] `Add platform to the Media struct in release/release.go`
    - [ ] `Add supporting code for new platform to _toStreamArch_ func found in the release/translate.go` 
    - [ ] (Cloud Only) `Cloud Images need to have a Images field`
- [ ] (Cloud Only) [stream-metadata-rust](https://github.com/coreos/stream-metadata-rust/)
    - [Example PR](ERM)
```

So I was thinking something like this. However, I am not finding a good example of a pr for the stream-metadata-rust adding a new platform. Or I am and just not recognizing it. 

Do you have any recommended Pr's for this @bgilbert ?

Author: Thats perfect thank you @miabbott !

    - [ ] `Add platform to the Media struct in release/release.go`
    - [ ] `Add supporting code for new platform to _toStreamArch_ func found in the release/translate.go` 
- [ ] Create a WIP draft pull request on [build pipeline](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-pipeline)
    - [ ] `Add platform to the list found in jobs/build.Jenkinsfile for building the new artifact`
- [ ] Create a Wip draft pull request on [fedora-coreos-browser](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-browser to update the release [browser](https://builds.coreos.fedoraproject.org/browser)
    - [ ] `Add a list element for new platform in browser/index.html`
- [ ] Create a WIP draft pull request for documentation for provisioning new platform [here](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-docs)

>     - [ ] `Add a provisioning-[platform].adoc that walks through how to setup the new platform` 

Reviewer: And an entry in the index, assuming there isn't one.

Author: Done!

## At Release

1. Merge:
- [ ] Platform support enhancements made it to CoreOS-Assembler
- [ ] Fedora website changes
- [ ] Stream-metadata-go changes
- [ ] Fedora-coreos-browser changes
2. Wait for updates made to CoreOS-Assembler to be propagated to latest container
    - [ ] Download Latest version of CoreOS-Assembler container. Verify platform support functionality. 
3. Merge:
- [ ] Build pipeline changes
4. Tag for bot pickup: [see semantic versioning](https://semver.org)
- [ ] Long tag stream-metadata-go commit with an appropriate new version.

> - [ ] Long tag fedora-coreos-stream-generator commit with a new appropriate version.

Reviewer: Before this, need to wait for Dependabot to PR f-c-stream-generator and cosa, and land both PRs.

Reviewer: We could link directly to the Dependabot pages for starting a run manually, and mention that an immediate run won't pick up the new release.

Author: Done.

    ```
    //Ensure gpg key for signing in github settings that is associated to redhat email.
    git status
    //Verify you are on the upstream repo's main branch
    git tag -s v#.#.#
    //replace # with numbers
    //give appropriate detail to tag, check pervious tags with 'git show v#.#.#'
    git push git@github.com:coreos/targeted-repo.git v#.#.#

>     ```

Reviewer: Wouldn't hurt to have an explicit step to navigate to the tag list and make sure there's a valid signed tag there.

Author: Great point.

> 5. Wait for FCOS release cycle, and then merge documentation

Reviewer: Specifically, wait for the new images to reach `stable`.  In the future that might take multiple cycles.

Author: Much better.

> # Adding a new supported platform(N)

Reviewer: `(N)`?

Maybe "Implementing a new supported platform" and `implement-new-platform.md`?

Author: I like it, done.

-[ ] Create a Wip draft pull request on [fedora-coreos-browser](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-browser to update the release [browser] (https://builds.coreos.fedoraproject.org/browser)
    -[ ] `Add a list element for new platform in browser/index.html`
-[ ] Create a WIP draft pull request for documentation for provisioning new platform [here](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-docs)
    -[ ] `Add a provisioning-[platform].adoc that walks through how to setup the new platform` 

### At Release

1. Merge:
- [ ] Platform support enhancements made it to CoreOS-Assembler
- [ ] Fedora website changes
- [ ] Stream-metadata-go changes
- [ ] Fedora-coreos-browser changes
2. Wait for updates made to CoreOS-Assembler to be propagated to latest container
    - [ ] Download Latest version of CoreOS-Assembler container. Verify platform support functionality. 
3. Merge:
- [ ] Build pipeline changes
4. Tag for bot pickup: [see semantic versioning](https://semver.org)
- [ ] Long tag stream-metadata-go commit with an appropriate new version.
- [ ] Long tag fedora-coreos-stream-generator commit with a new appropriate version.
    ```

>     //Ensure gpg key for signing in github settings that is associated to redhat email.

Reviewer: Shell comments use `#`.

Author: Yikes, ok I did switch out '//' but not sure what to switch out the number values with. How does v~.~.~ look vs v#.#.# since # has a special meaning in this context?

Reviewer: Maybe `x.y.z`?  Since you're referencing it more than once, you could do `RELEASE_VER=x.y.z` and then use `${RELEASE_VER}`.

Author: Okay, yeah I was worried about using chars because of the v (before the x.y.z) 

I went with x.y.z, and noted that they should check the convention, and mentioned that a v generally falls before x.y.z

Reviewer: It's almost always `vx.y.z`, so I think it makes sense to add the `v` by default.

Author: Well this is embarrassing.. I thought previous was in reference to the 'previous' comment about '//'s not being '#'s but instead it was a spelling

    git status
    //Verify you are on the upstream repo's main branch
    git tag -s v#.#.#
    //replace # with numbers

>     //give appropriate detail to tag, check pervious tags with 'git show v#.#.#'

Reviewer: `previous`

Reviewer: Wasn't fixed.

Author: Ah ok, it should be now.

Reviewer: Still isn't.

Author: Well this is embarrassing.. I thought previous was in reference to the 'previous' comment about '//'s not being '#'s but instead it was a spelling
